.. post:: 
   :category: services, gis
   :tags: geoportaal, geoserver
   :author: Koen Van Daele
   :language: en

Flanders Heritage Geoportal: All Together Now!
==============================================

`Flanders Heritage <https://www.onroerenderfgoed.be>`_ has had a `geoportal
<https://geo.onroerenderfgoed.be>`_ since 2013. Although it has grown and
transformed over the years, the basic goals and the architectural design have
remained largely unchanged. Our first and main requirement was that we wanted
something that was easy to use for a large userbase. We had observed that other
geoportals tended to cater to the GIS professionals and quite often sought to
build an online version of a desktop GIS. This creates a web application that
might be versatile and quite powerful to people who know GIS, but is ultimately
inaccessible to user who have no GIS experience. We wanted to create a user
experience similar to `Google Maps` and other webbased mapping platforms, but
specifically tailored to users looking for information on cultural heritage. We
also wanted the geoportal to feel like an integral part of our online
information source. To achieve this we created reports that always link to our
online sources through their persistent URI's. These URI's are present as
metadata in all our geographical data and link features back to their authentic
source where the data is always up to date.

A second requirement came about through the data we wanted to show. While
Flanders Heritage creates, maintains and publishes geodata about immovable 
cultural heritage, it does not publish other geodata. We have always relied
heavily on `Flanders Information Agency <https://informatie.vlaanderen.be>`_
(the former Agentschap Geografische Informatie Vlaanderen or AGIV) as our partner for
supplying us with geographical basemaps and non-heritage related information
layers. We also had other layers we wanted to incorporate, from other entities
of the Flemish Government such as `Mercator <>`_ or other countries (`RCE
<>`_). We not only rely upon `Informatie Vlaanderen` for geographical layers,
but they also provide alfanumerical services that help in navigating maps.
There's the CRAB services that enumerates all address data in Flanders, the
CAPAKEY service that provides data on cadastral parcels and a geolocation
service that helps to quickly find a certain address in a free-form text-search
style. We wanted to use all these services and store as little data as possible
from these other services. A few caches here and there are fine, but not
full-scale copies of other services and databases. We fetch the data at it's
point of origin so the data we present are as uptodate as possible.

Finally, from a technical point of view we wanted to work with open source
software and have the maintenance of the portal be fairly simply, while still
allowing us to configure things in an optimal way. We wanted to make the easy
things simple to do and the hard things doable. This philosopy has worked out
well for us. 
